So now that we've spend some
time visualizing printPhrases,
let's go take a
little closer look
at its actual
implementation logic.
And the implementation,
of course,
is going to use all the streams
mechanisms we've talked about
as well as some other fun things
that come from Java 8 maps.
So printPhrases uses
a stream to convert
a list of lists of
search results to a map
that associates phrases found
in the input with the works
where they were found.
So I've kind of showed
you that from before.
So here's the way the
implementation works.
As you can see, printPhrases
is passed a list
of list of search results.
And that list of lists
of search results
was actually obtained from
the process stream methods.
A process stream got back the
list of list of search results.
And then, at some point,
the printPhrases method
is called passing that is input.
The first thing we do
here is we take our list
of list of search results.
And we convert it into a stream
of lists of search results.
Sorry.
It's a bit of a mouthful
to keep saying this.
So we'll now have a stream
of lists of search results.
Keeping in mind that some
of these lists of results
will be empty.
So to deal with this, we then
type the output of stream
into the flat map
intermediate operation.
And the output a flat map
will be the flattened stream
of lists of search results into
a stream of search results.
So that's why I always
like to show the--
I always like to try to show
the bulldozer to illustrate
it's flattened everything out.
And that works by combining
flat map with List::stream.
That knows how to do these magic
things to lists to convert them
into streams and also to throw
out any of the empty lists
so those empty lists of search
results are just ignored.
So we don't include
them in the stream.
So the key point to
take away from this--
or one of the key points.
Ther's a number of key points
to take away from this.
But one of the key points to
take away from this discussion
is that flat map
can return an output
stream that differs from
the number of input stream
elements.
This is obviously very
different from map.
Always has to return
an output stream that
has the same number of
input stream elements.
Filter either returns less
than or equal but flat map
can actually return equal,
less than, or greater than.
Now in this particular
example, the number
of input elements
coming into flat map
will be however many lists
of lists of search results
there are.
So let's say that there were
38 works of Shakespeare.
We're going to end up with 38
lists of search results coming
into flat map.
What comes out of flat
map depends on basically
what phrases happen to match.
So if we ended up with a
handful of phrases that match,
we may end up with
a stream that's
much less because all those
empty lists of search results
will all be ignored.
Conversely, if we looked up
dozens or hundreds of phrases,
or phrases that matched lots
of places in Shakespeare,
we could very well end up
with many more search results
as the output.
So it really kind of
depends on various factors
whether we end up with
less than, greater than,
or equal to number of
output stream elements
relative to the number
of input stream elements.
You could also see
that flat map is
able to transform
its input stream
type into a different
output stream type.
So in this case,
we take a stream
of lists of search
results and end up
with a stream of search results.
So that's obviously
a change in type.
So the next thing
that happens is
we trigger the intermediate
processing operation,
the flat map call essentially,
by having collect run.
That calls grouping by.
And that will group the elements
via the classification function
and return the
results into a map.
And so you can see here that
the classification function
will create keys
in the map based
on the titles of the plays.
So each key will be the title.
So the Tragedy of Hamlet,
Prince of Denmark,
the Tragedy of Julius Caesar,
the Tragedy of Macbeth,
blah, blah, blah.
So those will end up
being the keys in the map.
And then the type of map
we're going to use here
will be a tree map,
although it really
could be anything we want
doesn't really matter.
And the last piece here that
we pass into grouping by
is the downstream collector,
which in this case
will create a list
collector that's
applied to the results of
the classification function.
So that's just a
fancy way of saying
that what you end up doing here
is you end up taking the title
and using that as the key.
And then you take what the
search result that corresponded
to the title and you
add that to the end
of a list that will
grow as we end up
with matching phrases that
match that particular title.
So we'll end up with a
list of search results, one
for everything that matched.
Now what we end up
with here is a map
which maps strings, which
are the titles to the list
of search results,
which correspond
to where the phrases were
actually found in the input.
And I happened to write
the code this way just
to make it a little bit more
clear that we had a map here.
If you think back to some
of our earlier discussions,
we talked about things like
the print suffix slice method.
In that example, I didn't have
any intermediate variables.
This time I have
intermediate variables.
It just makes it a
little bit easier
to explain what's going on.
So we now take our map--
so we have a map of strings
to list of search results.
And we use the forEach method.
This is, of course,
the forEach method
that's defined on the
map not on the stream.
And what this
forEach method does
is we use a lambda
expression as a parameter.
And you can see it
today's key value
pairs using Java's wonderful
type deduction mechanism.
Key, of course, is
going to be a string.
And value, of course, will
be a list of search results.
And it will iterate through all
the key value pairs in the map.
And it'll print
out the key, which
will be the title, like Tragedy
of Hamlet, Tragedy of Julius
Caesar, and so on.
And then it'll go
ahead and for each
of the elements in the
list, each of the search
results in the list, where
it says value.forEach,
that's for each of the elements
in the list of search results.
We will go ahead and print out
each of the search results.
So that will go ahead and print
out each of the phrases one
at the time.
And of course, that'll all occur
under the heading of the title
of the play, which was the key.
So hopefully that
makes some sense.
I think it's super cool.
This example is
very, very concise.
It's very clean.
We use the flat map to eliminate
the empty list of search
results.
We use collect grouping by to
combine everything together
in a nice clean way.
We use the forEach method on
map to go through the keys
and values and print them out.
And if you go back
and think about how
you would write this code with
the object-oriented solution,
I think you'll
quickly see it would
be a lot more complicated.
I probably actually should
go back in and do that just
for kicks to see how it looks.
But I think it would be much
longer, much more convoluted.
You'd have all kinds of
variables being defined,
and control constructs,
and so on and so forth.
It would just be ugly.
So this is a lot cleaner.
As I mentioned before,
if you're so inclined,
you can get rid of that
map local variable.
Can go from this
code to this code.
This code, of course,
is a bit more concise.
But until you really get
your head around Java 8,
and Java functional programming,
and Java streams and so on,
it could be a bit
harder to understand.
If you have a good text editor,
a good interactive development
environment, it'll probably help
to show you what the types are
and make it a little bit
clearer what's going on.
But I probably would prefer
to read code like this
although if I'm trying
to be clever and cute
I might prefer to write code
like that just because you
can put everything together in
one cohesive, fluent interface.